#95 treaded execution features (#104)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/getting_started/basics/execute.md

</figure>

### ![Clear Execution Button](images/clear_all_default.svg){style="width:5%"} Clear Execution

> The "Clear Execution" action will set all the nodes in the workflow to dirty. All **connected** inputs and output values will be cleared to their default values. This forces Shift to recompute all nodes the next time the workflow has to be executed.

Reviewer: I would extend about how this button behaves if there's a workflow currently executing

Author: Added one line to explain that

Reviewer: Have you pushed? I don't see it.

Author: now it should be there

<figure>
      <img src="images/clear_execution.gif" alt="Clear execution">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 4</b>: Clear the executed status from all nodes.</figcaption>
</figure>

### ![Live Execution Button](images/execute_live_default.svg){style="width:5%"} Live Execution

The "Live Execution" action allows to trigger the execution of the whole workflow whenever a change to any node is done. While the "Live Execution" is turned on, the other execution buttons are disabled. To re-enable all the execution buttons, turn Live Execution off.

<figure>

>       <img src="images/stopping_execution.gif" alt="Live Execution">

Reviewer: I guess this should be live_execution.gif?

Author: <3
Changed it, thank you!

      <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: Executing workflow in live execution mode.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Threaded Execution

> By default Shift will run the execution of the workflow on a dedicated thread. This allows the user to freely inspect the board contextually to its execution. Additionally, for long executing workflows, the user is free to author and inspect any board other than the executing one.

Reviewer: I don't understand what "inspect the board contextually to its execution" really means. Is there a way to reword it?

Author: I rephrased it

### Stopping a Running Execution

> When threaded execution is enabled, the user is free to interact with the Shift UI. An interruption of the currently executing workflow can be requested by clicking on the *Clear Execution* button. While a board is executing, this button will force the execution to stop without clearing the execution progress.

Reviewer: I would remove the first sentence, it's redundant to the information in the paragraph just before. 
```suggestion
An interruption of the currently executing workflow can be requested by clicking on the *Clear Execution* button. While a board is executing, this button will force the execution to stop without clearing the execution progress.
```

<figure>

>       <img src="images/live_execution.gif" alt="Stopping the Execution">

Reviewer: I think this is not the gif to this explanation

Author: switched it

      <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Stopping the execution of a workflow.</figcaption>
</figure>

> The interruption will take effect once the execution of the operator that was running when the button was clicked ends. This behaviour allows Shift to safely kill the execution thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interruption will take effect once the execution of the operator that was running when the button was clicked ends. This behaviour ensures that Shift can safely kill the execution thread.
```

### Managing Threaded Execution Behaviour

The threaded execution feature can be activated or deactivated from the *Single Thread* toggle in *Execute* menu in the top bar.

<figure>
      <img src="images/disabling_threaded_execution.gif" alt="Disabling Threaded Execution">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 7</b>: Disabling the threaded execution feature.</figcaption>
</figure>

>[!NOTE]
>The default execution mode can also be set at initialization of Shift using the `SHIFT_SINGLE_THREADED` environment variable.

### Actions Limited While Executing

> The user is allowed to perform most interactions with the Shift UI while a workflow is executing. This includes inspecting the nodes, authoring other boards and using plugins. However, the following actions are limited:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can perform most interactions within the Shift UI while a workflow is executing. This includes inspecting the nodes, authoring other boards and using plugins. However, the following actions are limited:
```

- The user can not launch executions of other workflows. Only one workflow at a time can be executed.

> - The user can not author the executing workflow. This includes not being able to: edit plug values, create plugs, create nodes or creating connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The user can not author the executing workflow. This includes not being able to: edit plug values, create plugs, create nodes or create connections.
```

- The user can not save the executing workflow. In order to save the workflow file the execution must finish or be interrupted.
- The user can not save workflows that are loaded and being executed inside *Workflow* nodes in another board.
- The user can not paste nodes copied from an executing workflow. The user must wait for the execution to finish before pasting.

### Executing Specific Nodes on the Main Thread

> Certain Python functions are required to be called from the main thread. This is the case for some DCCs like Maya or Nuke. Ignoring this requirement can cause unexpected behaviours or crashes. Please check out the [Forcing Operators to Run on the Main Thread](../../reference/developer_guide/developing_custom_catalogs#forcing-operators-to-run-on-the-main-thread) section of the *Developer Guide* for more information on the advanced options available to force the execution of nodes in the main thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certain Python functions are required to be called from the Python process main thread. This is the case for some DCCs like Maya or Nuke. Ignoring this requirement can cause unexpected behaviours or crashes. When a node executes in the main thread, the Shift UI will momentarily freeze until the execution of the node finishes. Please check out the [Forcing Operators to Run on the Main Thread](../../reference/developer_guide/developing_custom_catalogs#forcing-operators-to-run-on-the-main-thread) section of the *Developer Guide* for more information on the advanced options available to force the execution of nodes in the main thread.
```

>[!NOTE]

> >These solutions are employed in the *Creative Software* catalog and *PythonScript* node. When executing DCC specific nodes in Maya or Nuke, the Shift UI is expected to momentarly freeze until the execution of the node finishes.

Reviewer: I would remove this

      <figcaption><b>Figure 5</b>: Executing workflow in live execution mode.</figcaption>
</figure>

## Threaded Execution

By default Shift will run the execution of the workflow on a dedicated thread. This allows the user to freely inspect the board that is currently executing. Additionally, for long executing workflows, the user is free to author and inspect any board other than the executing one.

### Stopping a Running Execution

An interruption of the currently executing workflow can be requested by clicking on the *Clear Execution* button. While a board is executing, this button will force the execution to stop without clearing the execution progress.

<figure>
      <img src="images/stopping_execution.gif" alt="Stopping the Execution">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Stopping the execution of a workflow.</figcaption>
</figure>

The interruption will take effect once the execution of the operator that was running when the button was clicked ends. This behaviour ensures that Shift can safely kill the execution thread.

### Managing Threaded Execution Behaviour

> The threaded execution feature can be activated or deactivated from the *Single Thread* toggle in *Execute* menu in the top bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The threaded execution feature can be activated or deactivated from the *Single Thread* toggle in *Execute* menu in the top bar. Please be aware that disabling this feature will cause the workflow to run in the same Python process as the Shift UI, resulting in Shift freezing until the execution is complete.
```

Author: Changed "process" to "thread", let me know if it is alright and I can push

```suggestion
The threaded execution feature can be activated or deactivated from the *Single Thread* toggle in *Execute* menu in the top bar. Please be aware that disabling this feature will cause the workflow to run in the same Python thread as the Shift UI, resulting in Shift freezing until the execution is complete.
```

Reviewer: It's good
